# Barclays-Hack-O-Hire
The project as part of the Barclays Hack - O - Hire Hackathon


# Problem Statement
Password Strength Analyzer with AI

Intelligent Tool for Password Strength Analysis using GenAI and Machine Learning

Challenge:

Build an intelligent tool that analyzes password strength beyond basic metrics (length, special characters), by utilizing GenAI and ML techniques to predict how vulnerable is the password to be compromised.

Tool should be capable of, but not limited to:

Allowing users to create password with maximum Time-to-crack threshold
Evaluate the password weakness through suggestions and reasoning which is interpretable by the user, to help improve it. Example: If user enters “Summer2024” model might suggest “5uMM3r#2024*Q” based on entropy and unpredictability.
Technology:

Python, Flask (maybe) or any other technology for interface, hashcat for cracking simulation
Data:

Model developed should cross reference a password with public data sources.
Also, in order to go live with this delivery refer the dummy dataset below.
Train datasets: RockYou
Design Considerations:

GenAI, Transfer learning Model, ML Algorithms can be utilized to estimate how likely a given password can be guessed based on common patterns, dictionary words or leaked password datasets.
Expectation is Tool should find out “time-to-crack” and provide suggestions to improve vulnerabilities of password
Other Considerations:

Leverage pretrained ML model on datasets of leaked passwords (eg. From breaches like RockYou) to identify a pattern of weak passwords.
Provide detailed real time feedback with reasoning generated by GenAI on why the password is easy and what type of attack will be able to crack it with "time-to-crack" estimate using hashing algorithms like bcrypt or SHA-256
Benefits:

Over 80% of the confirmed data breaches are linked to stolen, weak and reused passwords. Two thirds of the US population use same password across multiple accounts, increasing Vulnerability to attack. Considering these stats, organization needs to adapt using GenAI to have better passwords. Ideally this should be inbuilt feature of all the tools in Barclays to suggest better alternatives. This will make our systems more robust and avoid outages or leakages due to weak password.
